hi everybody this 2014 comes to an end
we can enter the new year with new
confidence that America is making
significant strides where it counts the
steps we took nearly six years ago to
rescue our economy and rebuild it on a
new foundation helped make 2014 the
strongest year for job growth since the
1990s over the past 57 months our
businesses have created nearly 11
million new jobs and in a hopeful sign
for middle-class families wages are on
the rise again our investments in
American manufacturing have helped fuel
its best stretch of job growth since the
90s America is now the number-one
producer of oil and gas saving drivers
about 70 cents a gallon at the pump over
last Christmas the auto industry were
rescued is on track for its strongest
year since 2005 thanks to the Affordable
Care Act about 10 million Americans have
gained health insurance in the past year
alone and since I took office we've cut
our deficits by about two-thirds
meanwhile around the world America is
leading we're leading the coalition to
degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL
we're leading the global fight to combat
the Ebola outbreak in West Africa we're
leading global efforts to address
climate change including last month's
joint announcement with China we're
turning a new page in our relationship
with the Cuban people
and in less than two weeks after more
than 13 years our combat mission in
Afghanistan will be over and our war
there will come to a responsible end
today more of our troops are home for
the holidays than at any time in over a
decade
still many of our men and women in
uniform will spend this Christmas in
harm's way and as commander-in-chief I
want our troops to know your country is
united in our support and gratitude for
you and your families the six years
since the financial crisis have demanded
hard work and sacrifice on everyone's
part but as a country we have every
right to be proud of what we've got to
show forth more jobs more ensured a
growing economy shrinking deficits
bustling industry booming
energy pick any metric you want
America's resurgence is real and we now
have the chance to reverse the
decades-long erosion of middle-class
jobs and incomes we just have to invest
in the things we know will secure even
faster growth in higher-paying jobs for
more Americans they have to make sure
our economy our justice system and our
government work not only for a few but
for all of us and I look forward to
working together with the new Congress
next year on these priorities sure we'll
disagree on some things
we'll have to compromise on others I'll
act on my own when it's necessary but
I'll never stop trying to make life
better for people like you because
thanks to your efforts a new foundation
is laid a new future is ready to be
written we have set the stage for a new
American moment and I'm going to spend
every minute of my last two years making
sure we seize it I'm half the Obama
family I wish all of you a very Merry
Christmas thanks and have a wonderful
holiday season
you